Hello and welcome back.
You've probably heard the
phrase garbage in, garbage out.
Well, that's very true
for Production ML.
You can have a live data.
But if your data isn't good,
well it's not good for ML
either. How do you know?
How do you know your data
is good or isn't good?
Let's find out right now.
Now let's look at validating
data and detecting
data issues and really
look at trying to
understand what issues
we need to deal with.
We need to detect data issues,
and we often talk
about drift and skew.
We're going to be
discussing Data and concept
Drift and Schema Skew
and Distribution Skew,
and how to go about conceptually
detecting data issues.
First of all, let's get
some definitions out of
the way, drift and skew.
Drift is changes
in data over time.
For example, data collected
once a day over time,
maybe a week later,
a month later, there are
changes that data has drifted.
Skew is the difference between
two static versions from
different sources of
conceptually the same dataset.
For example, it could
be the difference
between your training set
and the data that
you're getting for
prediction requests,
your serving set.
Those differences are
referred to as skew.
In a typical ML pipeline,
this shows batch processing,
but it could also be
online processing.
You'll have different sources
of data that are
conceptually the same.
They have the same
feature vector,
but over time they will change.
That means that model
performance can either
drop quickly due to things like
system failure or can decay
over time due to changes
in the data and things
like changes in the world.
We're going to focus on
performance decay over time
that arises due to issues
between training
and serving data.
There's really two
main reasons for that.
There's Data drift, which
are changes in the data
between training and serving
typically and Concept drift,
which are changes in
the world changes in
the ground truth.
To understand model
decay over time,
an ML model will start
to perform poorly
in many cases and we refer
to this as model decay.
That's usually or
often caused by drift,
which is changes in
a conceptual way.
There is changes in
the statistical properties
of the features.
It's sometimes due to
things like seasonality or
trend or unexpected events,
or just changes in the world.
This example here, we're
looking at an app that during
training the app
classified as a spammer,
any user who is sending 20
or more messages per minute.
We classified anybody
like that as a spammer.
But after a system
update which you
see as labeled on
the chart there,
both spammers and non-spammers
start to send more messages.
In this case, the data,
the world has changed and
that causes unwanted
misclassification.
We have all of our
users are classified as
spammers which they
probably won't like.
Concept drift is a change in
the statistical properties
of the labels over time.
At training, an ML
model learns a mapping
between the features
and the labels.
In a static world that's
fine, that won't change.
But in real-world,
distribution and the labels
meaning will change.
The model needs to change
as well as the mapping
found during training
will no longer be valid.
As you previously see,
there are many factors that cause
changes over time including
upstream data changes and
seasonality and evolving
business processes.
Schema skew occurs
when the training and
scheming as serving data do
not conform to the same schema,
which you might think
could never happen but
actually it can because
you're collecting data
and things change and
suddenly you're
getting an integer
where are you expecting a float.
Or you're getting
a string where you
are expecting a category.
Distributions skew
is a divergence
of training and
serving data sets.
The data set shift can
be really manifested
by covariant and concept
and other types of shifts.
We'll talk about
that in a second.
Skew detection involves
continuous evaluation
of data coming to your server
once you train your model.
To detect these changes,
you need continuous monitoring
and evaluation of the data.
Let's take a look at a
more rigorous definition
of the drift and skew
that we're talking.
Dataset shift occurs when the
joint probability of x are
features and y are
labels is not the same
during training and serving.
The data has shifted over time.
Covariate shift refers
to the change in
distribution of the
input variables
present in training
and serving data.
In other words, it's where the
marginal distribution of x
are features is not the same
during training and serving,
but the conditional
distribution remains unchanged.
Concept shift refers to
a change in the
relationship between
the input and output variables as
opposed to the differences in
the Data Distribution
or input itself.
In other words, it's when
the conditional
distribution of y are
labels given x are
features is not the same
during training and serving,
but the marginal distribution of
x are features remains unchanged.
There's a straightforward
workflow to detect data skew.
The first stage is looking
at training data and
computing baseline statistics
and a reference schema.
Then you do basically the
same with your serving data,
you're going to generate
the descriptive statistics.
Then you compare the two.
You compare your serving
baseline statistics
and instances.
You check for differences
between that and
your training data.
You look for skew and drift.
Significant changes
become anomalies
and they'll trigger an alert.
That alert goes to whoever's
monitoring system,
that can either be a human
or another system to
analyze the change and
decide on the proper
course of action.
That's got to be
the remediation of
the way that you're going to fix
and react to that problem.